# Project workflow using Git and GitHub
To coordinate efforts as a team we will be using Git for our version control 
system and GitHub as our remote repository. Branches will be an integral 
component of our efforts.

## Git Hygiene
Here are a few good practices to utilize when using Git.

###Current Branch
Always know the current branch checked out before doing any work, whether it is
to edit files or merge another branch into the current. Know your branch! Make
`git status` your friend!

Personally, I will `checkout` my `developer branch` after pushing my changes, 
especially if I am finished coding for now. There will be times when I forget 
to check my current branch.

### Commits
It is best to make small, concise, and logical commits. When gradual changes are
made it is easier to find introduced bugs or rollback changes.

Detail what changes you made and *why*. Looking back at a commit (you or another
developer) it will be easier to understand what was trying to be accomplished
versus what was implemented.

### .gitignore
There will be numerous files that are not needed by other developers or might
be too big for the repo (video files). For the first, files such as IDE 
workspace files (`.vs`, `.idea`) is only needed for your specific environment. 

As for the latter, what project files that are not going to be held in the 
repository is agreed upon by the group. Such files will have to be distributed
by other means.

### Stashing
using `git stash` is a great way to keep your work without making a `commit` you
are not ready to make. Some use cases:
* You need to `checkout` another branch or a specific `commit`
* You want to try something experimental and potentially *dangerous*.

## Branches

### master
This branch will be used for the release of our project's deliverables. Once a 
phase is complete and ready to ship, the repo master will merge the phase's
code into `master` and create a release. This will be our `release branch`.

I do not foresee anyone but the repo master needs to `checkout` the `master
branch`, but this is subject to change as needs demands.

**NOTE:** No coding will be done in this branch.

### rc1, rc2, rc3, ...
During each phase of the project, we will be working together to create a
deliverable. Combining our work into a branch off of `master` will help keep
the `release branch` clean. The dirty work will be done in `rc` branch which 
will be our `release candidate branch`.

This will be the staging branch for incoming and outgoing changes/updates
between developers. There is a procedure below on how this will be accomplished.

After a release candidate is complete and finalized, the repo master will
merge the release candidate branch into master and create a release. After
this point, a new release candidate branch will be created off of `master` and
the old release candidate branch will be deleted along with all `developer
branches` tied to that branch.

**NOTE:** Like `master` there will be no coding done in this branch (hopefully).

### bbranch, cbranch, ibranch, zbranch
These will be our `developer` branches. This is where each developer will do
their own work in, respectively. You can create your own branches off your
`developer branch`. It's advised to not work in other developer branches unless
invited to help.

There is a procedure to follow before merging changes into the `release 
candidate branch`.

## Update and Changes Workflow
The steps to follow when working on the project.
### Before you code, update your local branches
Before you start working in your `developer branch` you should update your
branch.

1. **Checkout Release Candidate Branch**
   1. Use Git to `checkout` the current `release candidate branch`.
   2. Perform a `fetch` and then a  `pull`, or just `pull` if you don't care to see what changes there are beforehand.
   3. Resolve any `merge conflicts` (if we follow the guide, this won't happen often).
2. **Checkout Developer Branch**
   1. Now that we have the latest updates, `checkout` your `developer branch`.
   2. Use `merge` and select the `release candidate branch`.
   3. Resolve any `merge conflicts` (if any).

### Merging and pushing changes to release candidate
You've done some work, and you're ready to share it with the team. You need to
update your local `release candidate branch` and then `push` your updates
to the remote origin.

1. **Checkout Release Candidate Branch**
   1. Use Git to `checkout` the current `release candidate branch`. We want the latest updates from the team.
   2. Perform a `fetch` and then a  `pull`, or just `pull`.
   3. Resolve `merge conflicts`.
2. **Checkout Developer Branch**
   1. Git `checkout` your `developer branch`.
   2. Update your `developer branch` using `merge` and select the `release candidate branch`.
   3. Resolve and `merge conflicts`.
3. **Back to the Release Candidate Branch**
   1. `checkout` the `release candidate branch`.
   2. Use `merge` and select your `developer branch`.
   3. Since the `merge conflicts` should have been resolved when you updated and merged from `release candidate` to `developer branch` there should not be any conflicts.
4. **Push your Changes to the Remote Origin**
   1. Execute a `push` command to upload your changes to the `origin`. 
   2. Now the rest of your team can follow the `Before you code, update your local branches` to `pull` your updates.
5. **Checkout Your Developer Branch**
   1. I leave it up to each developer to figure out their best way to maintain good git hygiene, but personally I always `checkout` my branch after a `push` even if I am finished for now.

### Creating Branches
You will be creating your `developer branch` off of the `release candidate branch`.
1. **Checkout Release Candidate Branch**
   1. Use Git to `checkout` the current `release candidate branch`.
   2. Perform a `fetch` and then a  `pull`, or just `pull`.
   3. Resolve `merge conflicts`.
2. **Create New Branch**
   1. Use Git `branch [new branch name]`. This will create a new `branch`
   2. Branch names should be all lowercase.
